MAN ( over radio ):
Transport 334, we're hearing
a tractor trailer
flipped over on 295.
It's a parking lot.
334, roger that.
Tell the judge we're going
to be a little awhile.
We'll peel off at New Kent.
I'll take King Williams
to River Road.
Nah, just take stay on 17
the whole way.
Yeah, wait one.
My wife is giving me directions.
I don't want to take
the damn scenic route.
You got all
those stoplights
in New Kent.
( grunting )
Oh God, I can't breathe!
( tires squealing )
Richie?
Stop the bus.
( tires squealing )
Just pull it over
to the side.
( groaning )
( groans )
Richie!
You okay?
( gasps )
Come on.
Let's get out of here.
Captioning sponsored by
PARAMOUNT TELEVISION
and CBS
How'd it go?
Perfect.
Didn't feel a thing.
Did White seem to buy it?
He bought it, all right.
He was scared.
You could smell it.
( phone rings )
Hey, Gibbs.
Yeah, I'm calling
about the VW convertible.
What?
The '92 VW for sale.
You got the wrong number.
Come on, Kate. We're moving.
See ya.
Bye.
( dialing phone )
( phone ringing )
Hello.
You got him?
Are you honestly asking me that?
No, Abbs,
I called to flirt.
Do you think I would send
our helpless boy
out there in the world
without knowing
exactly where he is?
Abby, go to video.
I thought you said
you had him.
The GPS system has his position
within four feet.
You don't have him in the car?
No, Abby, I do not!
Okay, I got him now.
You forgot to turn it on.
Put McGee on.
He wants you.
How'd he know
I was here?
Because he's Gibbs.
Uh, yes, boss.
I got people calling me
every five minutes
asking if I have a VW for sale.
A VW?
It's a car, McGee.
No, no, no. I know.
I just didn't know
that you owned a VW.
Do I seem like the kind of guy
who would drive
a squishy little car?
No. You know, it's probably
a used car listing in the paper
with the wrong number
that is, unfortunately,
your number.
Do you think?
You already figured that out.
Fix it!
How does he want me to fix it?
You can't.
You're doomed.
So you better
get back to the case.
( beeping )
Okay, so where did you
finally put the GPS?
I thought about
subdermal implantation.
Under the skin?
Yeah, like, maybe in his neck.
Tony wouldn't go for it.
But I would have loved
to have done that.
Didn't consider
a suppository?
I thought of it.
Tony balked.
Surprising.
Yeah.
I put it in his shoe.
It's really boring.
( panting )
( gasps )
Wait.
I can't...
I can't keep going.
Get up and run!
Let's go.
Hey! I just killed a guy
back there.
I am not getting caught.
Let's get up and run!
Move it!
Let's go!
If you kill me,
you're going
to have to drag me.
Okay. What's your name?
Jeffrey.
I'm Tony. You ever see
The Defiant Ones, Jeffrey?
What?
The movie, The Defiant Ones.
Tony Curtis, Sidney Poitier?
I think I'm having
an asthma attack.
It's a great movie.
These two guys, right?
A black guy
and a white guy
escape from
a Southern chain gang.
They're chained together,
just like we are.
We're not black.
My grandmother was black.
Oh. Okay, so, what happens?
They fight each other
every step of the way.
Tony Curtis has
an infected wrist,
a bullet
in his shoulder...
Really?
Yeah. He had guts.
Guts, Jeffrey.
He doesn't want
to live in a cage.
I don't want to
live in a cage.
So we're going
to get up.
Jeffrey, we're going
to get up
and we're going
to get out of here.
Who's Tony Curtis?
You are. Let's go.
Let's go. Attaboy.
( groans )
Where's Gibbs?
Who needs to know?
I'm the new Senior
MTAC Control Officer.
Where is he?
He is in the field.
The Director's Office called.
In five minutes,
the Deputy Secretary of State,
Anna Elliott...
The Deputy Secretary
of the United States?
No, Norway.
She's coming on an MTAC.
She's going to be
the State Department rep
on the investigation.
Get Gibbs fast.
( phone rings )
I don't have a VW for sale!
Yeah, I-I know, boss.
Switching to the car feed.
The Deputy Secretary of State
is coming on an MTAC
in five minutes
and she wants to speak with you.
Handle it, McGee.
Uh, excuse me?
You are the highest-ranking
member of our team
in the office. Deal with it.
Do you think that's a good idea?
This is a very powerful
and important
government official...
Boss? Boss?
Agent Gibbs?
Uh, no. No, ma'am.
Agent Timothy McGee.
Are you in charge
of this investigation?
Uh, at this moment, uh...
here at NCIS headquarters, I am.
Agent Gibbs
is unreachable in the field.
Okay, give me the short version.
Well, since the beginning
of the war,
many very valuable Iraqi
antiquities
have been smuggled out of Iraq.
Roll it.
You should be seeing them
on your screen now.
FBI and Customs have seized
many of these pieces in the U.S.
They were collected and stored
at Norfolk Naval Station
for shipment back to Iraq.
Many of these artifacts date
back from the Sumerian period.
They're about 5,000 years old.
Is this the short version?
Y-Yes.
Shorter.
Faster and let's skip
the whole Sumerian period.
Okay. Okay.
Uh, they were stolen
by two civilian employees
who were hired to crate them
for shipment back to Iraq.
And how many pieces were taken?
Eighty-seven.
They were stolen
in-in a large Conex container
roughly... 18 hours ago.
One of the
thieves, Jeffrey White,
picked up on a traffic violation
minutes after an APB went out.
He is in custody... sort of.
The other is Lane Harrison.
He is, he is at large
with the Conex box.
What does that mean,
"In custody, sort of"?
If the Iraqi antiquities
are not recovered
within 48 hours, statistically,
they will probably be sold
into private art collections
and lost forever.
Okay, I'll ask again.
What does that mean
"In custody, sort of"?
Sorry. Uh, Jeffrey, Jeffrey
refused to talk,
so we let him get away
with an undercover agent,
hoping that he would lead us
to the Conex box.
You let the one that you had
in custody escape?
With an undercover NCIS agent,
yes, ma'am.
( sighs )
( grunting )
They did this
in The Defiant Ones.
The chain represents
the unbreakable bond
between all men.
Every scene in that movie
is a metaphor.
You don't talk
like a criminal.
What'd you do?
Okay, I didn't do anything.
Let's get that crystal clear.
I was landing my plane
in Virginia Beach
on my way back from
the Dominican Republic.
You're a pilot?
Yeah, I was flying in
this rich couple.
Customs found four keys
of cocaine in the luggage.
It was the
rich couple's.
I never saw it before.
I'm sorry.
It's a tough break.
Yeah.
I was looking
at 25 to life.
I wasn't going
to let that happen.
And this isn't working.
( grunts )
All right.
We got to keep moving.
You ready to be
Tony Curtis again?
Uh-huh.
All right. Here we go.
This way.
That's it. That's it.
You are Tony Curtis.
Yes.
They're moving.
( engine starts )
( laughs )
Yeah, baby.
That's our ticket out of here.
All right, let's find out
if anybody's home.
( gasps )
Watch it!
( Jeffrey shrieking )
Stop it! Stop it!
Stop it! Shush!
Shh!
I guess, I guess
no one's home, huh?
They would have
heard us, right?
You figured that out
yourself?
You put that
all together!?
Hey, was there anything
like this, like in the water
in The Defiant Ones?
( chuckles )
Yeah. Yeah,
there was a scene
where the two of them
nearly drowned.
But that was a river.
This is a river.
No, Jeffrey, it's not.
No, this is not a river,
Jeffrey.
You know what this is?
It's a stream.
And you can't drown
in a stream, okay?
You can get wet and you can
get frickin' freezing,
but you can't drown!
You look mad.
Why are you mad?
We survived.
Surviving in two feet
of water
is not a heroic
accomplishment.
It is when you have
a phobia of drowning.
You look cold..
I am cold.
Okay. Let's see
if we can get inside.
Lost him.
I lost him, too!
There's something wrong
with the GPS.
God...
( birds twittering )
TONY:
The chicks
are going to love you.
That'll be the day.
Am I sensing a lack
of confidence here?
Well, look at me.
What have I got to
be confident about?
Hey, pump a little iron,
get a tan,
contact lenses...
...caps, maybe a
little plastic surgery,
and you'll be fine.
Oh.
Jeffrey, it's our lucky day.
( Tony chuckles )
You know, you've only been
with me four hours, Jeffrey.
You realize how much
your life has changed?
You're out of prison,
you got new threads,
and you're riding in
a tricked-out GMC Sierra.
Ow.
( laughs )
( computer beeping )
We got a signal from the truck.
We're back in business, Gibbs.
Good call on the trailer.
Cash, clothes and a car.
Everything Tony loves.
Let's just hope he-/////!s
not headed for Vegas.
Would you slow down?
If I go any slower I'll be
going backwards, Jeffrey.
Ah, these cuff are chaffing me.
Maybe we should stop
and get you some lotion.
Really?
No, not really, Jeffrey.
We're criminals on the run,
and criminals on the run
don't stop and get lotion.
Right.
Okay, listen, just relax.
I know some people
down in Florida.
We can drive down there.
Problem is, we can't stay
in this truck forever.
It's probably LoJacked.
I have a friend
who could help us.
He's near here.
You have a friend near here?
And you were going
to tell me this when?
Sorry.
I just thought of it.
Let's find a pay phone.
( clicks tongue )
WOMAN:
OnStar. How can we help you,
Mr. Reynolds?
Hi, yeah, we'd like
to make a call.
I'd be happy
to place that call for you.
What is the number?
Hold on a second?
Let's get out of
these cuffs, Jeffery.
What's the number?
Come on.
Watch out!
( engine dieseling, stalls )
Gibbs, it sounds like Tony
was in an accident.
GIBBS:
Got it, Abby.
We're on it.
I wasn't going to hit him.
I saw him the whole time.
I think I have a concussion.
You didn't hit your
head on anything.
The sticker says the
"airbags can be fatal."
For children.
( engine grinding )
You okay?
Uh...
Yeah, we're cool.
I called 911.
Kate?
Oh, no.
Who's Kate?
My dog.
She must've jumped out.
Kate!
Come here, girl!
( smacks lips, whistles )
( groans )
( cries out in pain )
( grunts ):
My leg.
Can you move it?
Wait here.
I'll get her.
What does she look like?
A... shih tzu.
A what?
Long, brown hair, kind of mangy.
Come on, Jeffrey.
Get the lead out.
MAN:
Here, girl!
Wait, wait.
Let's go.
Come on, come on.
Kate!
Move it.
Here, girl!
Kate!
( grunts )
Put your arm around.
What?
Okay, under. all right?
( engine starting )
Hey, what are you doing?!
( sighs )
Hey! Hey, hey!
My bike was stolen.
You gotta help me.
Who stole it?
Two guys--
their truck went off the road.
I was helping
find their dog.
They had a dog?
A shih tzu named Kate.
They had a dog named Kate?
What's a shih tzu?
It's a little, annoying dog.
Did they describe it?
Yeah, they said it
had long, brown hair.
Kind of mangy.
I'm going to shoot him.
How much gas do you have left
in your tank?
Almost nothing.
Half-gallon, tops.
Let's go.
Hey, what about my bike?
We're going to find it.
Great, that's great.
What should I do?
Find the dog.
Loosen your grip.
What?
I can't breathe!
My hand is numb,
I can't move it.
Stop it.
I'm going to fall off.
You're not falling, Jeffrey.
I can't ride
without hugging.
Stop it.
You and I are going
to have a long talk
after this, Jeffrey.
Come on, guys.
Give me something to work with.
Hah!
JEFFREY:
It happened
on the way to arraignment.
I had no choice.
MAN ( on phone ):
Why the hell'd you run?
I was handcuffed.
What was I supposed to do?
( man on phone
speaks indistinctly )
Don't you sell that
without me, Lane.
Okay.
I know.
I'm sorry.
Lane is not happy
you're with me.
Well, we cut the chain,
you'll never see me again.
Could you fly me and
Lane out of the country?
It's tricky, Jeffrey.
We'd have to fly
below the radar.
No transponder.
Limited range.
Won't be cheap.
I could come up
with the money.
It might make
Lane like you.
I don't need Lane to like me.
We get out of these cuffs,
you can come with me,
if you want.
Without Lane.
Thanks. But I can't.
Hey, could I drive?
I'm getting a cramp
in this position.
No.
You didn't even
think about it.
Well, you ran into a tree.
Trust me, you shouldn't be...
( grunts in pain )
...operating heavy machinery.
Haven't seen 'em.
Well, here's our number
if they come in.
Sure.
Thanks.
GIBBS:
What?
You're worried.
About what?
Tony.
You are. I can tell.
I'm worried about the job, Kate.
Don't confuse the two.
( phone ringing )
I sold it.
ELLIOTT:
Where is Special Agent Gibbs?
He... he is still in the field.
Is he planning on coming back
or am I doomed to speak to you
for the duration
of this investigation?
Ma'am, he is... he is searching
for a missing agent.
The agent
chained to Jeffrey White?
Yes.
When a fellow officer
is in trouble...
So, you lost the agent
who is chained to Jeffrey White?
Well, yes, but...
Using the transitive
property then
that leads me to the conclusion
that NCIS
has lost Jeffrey White.
No.
No? Then you have Jeffrey White
in custody?
Well, I-I...
I...
Call the minute you find him.
Or whenever your mouth
begins to work again.
Whichever comes first.
I am not having this
conversation with you, Jeffrey.
For the 300th and final time,
shut your pie hole.
JEFFREY:
Okay. Okay, okay.
TONY:
Stop talking.
Just... just wait, wait.
Hey, Lane.
Hey.
That's Tony.
How you doin'?
Okay.
She's not as comfortable
as she looks.
Trust me.
You killed a federal marshal?
I don't know that I killed him.
You don't strike me
the type to kill a man.
Sorry to disappoint you.
Did Jeffrey tell you
what we have going on?
Ah, he just said
that you wanted me
to fly you out of the country.
That's all?
Yeah, that's all.
Jeffrey... manipulates easy.
I'm not manipulating...
No?
No.
You want me out of here,
I'm gone.
There's no need to rush off.
Unless you want to.
( chuckles )
Gotcha.
Their names didn't bring up
any criminal records.
That's because this print
doesn't match Lane Harrison
or Jeffrey White.
Meet Billy Collins.
Oh, no.
( Kate gasps )
Oh.
( phone ringing )
( groans )
Yeah? Gibbs.
McGEE:
We've got an ID.
Boss, Lane Harrison is an alias.
He has done time
for armed robbery and is wanted
for three murders
in the Seattle area.
What's his M.O.?
ABBY:
According
to the autopsy reports...
Abby?
He was a regular
Mack the Knife, Gibbs.
Their throats were cut
from behind.
There's a bed.
It'll help you sleep.
Thanks.
( grunts )
McGEE:
We now believe
that Jeffrey White
and Lane Harrison
are not who they say they are.
We've linked them
to several murders.
You put your agent
with murderers...
Yes, but we didn't know.
...and then you lost contact
with your agent,
Yes, but...
and you still have no idea
where in the world he is.
No, but...
And you have no idea where
the Iraqi antiquities are.
Well, no-no, we-we don't.
Not a clue?
Not a clue.
You ever worked at the
post office, Agent McGee?
No, ma'am.
You ever clean toilets
at a federal campground?
No, ma'am.
If these antiquities
are not found immediately,
you will not even be able to get
those two
federal government jobs.
Am I clear?
He's leaving bread crumbs.
( dialing )
( phone ringing )
McGee.
Hey.
Pull the records
on a pay phone number for me.
Ready.
The number is 804
555-0178.
Seven, eight.
Okay, got it.
Compare the numbers
to the ones we have
on Jeffrey White
or Lane Harrison.
Family, friends, anything.
Uh, look, boss,
the Deputy Secretary of State,
she-she keeps calling.
She keeps threatening things.
Things? What kind of things?
Not letting us clean toilets,
other jobs like that.
Hey, McGee,
calm down.
Okay.
Sorry. I'm calm now.
Okay, I'm going to tell you
how to handle this.
Next time she calls,
you give her two words
from the bottom of your heart.
Two words.
Stick it.
"Stick it"?
I-I'm not sure that I...
( phone disconnects )
Morning.
( groans )
What's the matter?
I'm not used to waking up
this close
to a man's face, Jeffrey.
We got to get out of here.
Lane took off.
Where did he go?
Last night we fought.
Over you.
Really don't like the way
that sounds, Jeffrey.
He wanted to get rid of you.
I wouldn't let him.
Oh, now that sounds good.
You've been decent to me.
Not a lot of people have.
Where did he go?
I'm going to lay
it out for you.
All right.
I'm about to make
a lot of money.
But I need a partner.
Talk to me.
Lane and me stole some stuff.
Very valuable stuff.
I kind of figured that.
What is it, drugs?
Stuff from Iraq.
Like from
a hundred thousand years ago.
There were no people then,
Jeffrey.
Whatever. It's old.
We got it off this Navy
base we were working at.
What's it worth?
Three million.
You're kidding.
We got a buyer--
this guy from Japan.
The stuff's going to be
on a ship to Tokyo tonight.
So when do you get the money?
Eight hours.
Okay.
Lane took off to sell it
out from under you, didn't he?
We got to get to those
buyers before he does.
Where's the stuff?
Someplace safe.
You with me?
( sighs )
I can't face Lane alone.
I'm with you.
Let's break the pattern.
What pattern?
"Dishonest silence"
pattern.
I'll start.
I'm worried for Tony.
There. I said it.
I dropped my guard
for two seconds,
I got it out,
now I'm happy.
That made you happy?
Yes.
Don't you want
to be happy, Gibbs?
I am happy.
You don't look happy.
( phone rings )
We're done with this.
I thought we were.
Yeah, McGee?
Switch to car feed.
Boss, I got the list of numbers
dialed from the pay phone.
One was placed to a hunting
cabin outside
of Richmond.
It was the only phone call
made from that pay phone
all afternoon.
I'm feeding you
the GPS coordinates now.
( tires screeching )
How soon can you get the plane?
Well, I know a guy
that can arrange
a charter
to Key West.
From there, we can get
a King Air 350
twin engine.
That'll get us to Mexico.
JEFFREY:
I'm glad Lane took off.
We're gonna make a good team.
Better get going.
Lane took the bike.
He must've pushed it
down the road.
He didn't want us to wake up
when he started it.
My father used to have
a cabin like this.
He used to bring me
and my sister here.
Good times?
Used to beat the crap out of me.
Your parents
are supposed
to help you, Tony,
not hurt you.
Your father hurt you?
No, he was too drunk
to hurt anyone.
I hate it here.
Then let's get out of here,
make us some money.
Hell, yeah.
Let's go make us lots of money.
( engine starting )
Either I speak to Agent Gibbs
and get a full accounting
of this investigation
or I've been authorized
to pull NCIS
from the investigation
and put it under
the FBI's jurisdiction.
You're getting in the way.
Excuse me, Agent McGee.
We are working
very hard.
We have an undercover agent
who is missing.
He's risking his life,
and your constant interruptions
are keeping me
from doing my job.
You lost
your prisoners.
You lost your agent.
That is not true.
That's what
you told me.
Look, the truth is,
that while Agent DiNozzo
is lost,
Jeffrey White
is still with him,
so Jeffrey White,
technically,
is with an NCIS agent
and therefore, technically,
is still in custody.
Well,
you've clearly
been empowered to tell me off.
Yes, ma'am.
And what exactly
did Agent Gibbs tell you
to say to me?
He told me to tell you to...
stick it.
You're telling me
to...
Stick it.
Thank you, Ms. Deputy
Secretary of State.
Our conversation is now over.
( scattered applause )
Clear.
We're too late.
Search it.
( phone ringing )
Yeah? Gibbs.
Special Agent McGee speaking.
Hey, McGee.
Yes, boss.
Run the phone records
for the land line at the cabin.
On it.
Oh, and, uh,
boss, I told her...
the Deputy Secretary of State.
Yeah? How'd it work?
Well, she submitted a formal
complaint to the Director.
McGee...
good job.
KATE:
Gibbs!
Over here.
Throat's slashed
to the spine.
Lane Harrison didn't kill
those two guys in Seattle.
Jeffrey White did it.
Tony has no idea
who he's with, Gibbs.
DUCKY:
Wasn't much of a struggle.
Only these abrasions
on his cheek.
The head was grabbed from
behind and immobilized,
and with the other hand...
...came around
and cut across the throat.
( camera shutter clicks )
From the look of things,
he was experienced in this
method of execution, Jethro.
We think he's responsible for
three other murders, same M.O.
And Tony's with the bastard?
Is he aware?
Probably not.
But we have to think
Tony didn't know
anything about this.
He would've never
allowed it to happen.
Unless...
We checked the rest of the area.
No other bodies.
Tony's still alive.
"Lynchburg
across from Wal-Mart."
( phone ringing )
Mean anything?
Yeah. Gibbs.
( hangs up )
( phone rings )
I do not have a VW.
Still getting the calls,
huh, boss?
What do you got, McGee?
Well, I got
the local message units
dialed from the cabin.
Nothing there.
Long distance?
The exchange has mechanical
switches,
so it's going
to take some time.
They may be headed
to Lynchburg
to make the sale.
I need the location
of all Wal-Marts in the area.
Fast.
On it.
What are we doing?
We're pulling over.
But we don't want Lane
showing up first--
we should get
to the buyer.
We got time.
I'm gonna take
a little nap.
You want me to drive
while you sleep?
You think we ought
to keep moving?
I do.
You got my back, Tony?
You know it.
You know...
...I feel like I've been
running my whole life...
...just to get
to this moment.
Finally doing
something right.
Found the Wal-Mart.
There's a storage facility
across the street,
with Conex boxes
in the parking lot.
Call the local LEOs.
Make sure they understand
there's a federal agent
working undercover.
You got it.
Nothing in the Conex boxes.
What about the long distance
records on the cabin?
Working on it, boss.
Work faster.
It was a misdirect.
He knew that we would
search the body.
What do we do?
( phone rings )
Yeah. Gibbs.
God...
( dialing )
( phone rings )
McGee.
Hey! McGee!
Listen up...
Boss, it's only been,
like, ten seconds.
I'm know I'm good,
but I'm not that good.
I just had a hang-up.
Check the last incoming call
on my cell
and have Abby
run a GPS location.
This isn't about the VW, is it?
No!
It's where DiNozzo is!
ABBY:
It's Lane Harrison's cell phone.
Highway 14, just past
Newport News, Virginia.
Stay on the phone
and guide us there.
( engine revs, Kate shrieks )
ABBY:
You all right?!
Gibbs is driving.
I'm saying a prayer
in many languages.
( tires squealing )
How we doing?
You scared the
hell out of me.
That's part of my charm.
( phone rings )
Tony.
He's coming down 14th,
headed for the west side.
Take a right.
( ringing )
What the hell's that?
It's in my bag.
I thought I turned it off.
( ringing continues )
Battery's dead.
Well, turn it off.
They can trace a cell phone.
( phone beeps )
Off.
I lost the signal!
930685-7.
That's her.
History of the world in a box.
I don't see Lane.
I've always wanted
to scuba dive.
I'm gonna scuba dive.
What do you think
of that?
Well, you can't swim, Jeffrey.
There's that, yeah.
You can teach me.
That's him.
Now, you're gonna
watch my back.
I'm gonna go
get the cash...
...and then we're
gonna get out of here.
You ready?
I want you to listen
to me, Jeffrey.
Okay.
I'm a federal agent.
( laughing )
Good one, Tony.
Naval Criminal
Investigative Service.
Don't say that.
Wish I didn't have to.
Need the long distance numbers
from the cabin, McGee!
Working on them!
Never lost an agent
undercover, Kate.
I am not about to let DiNozzo
screw that up.
Everyone's gonna know
you wanted to turn yourself in.
That you drove me here
voluntarily.
You testify against Lane,
they're gonna cut you a deal.
W-W-What do I do?
Okay, you sit tight.
I'll arrest the buyer,
then we call my boss
and he'll pick us up.
Okay.
One call:
Dr. Haru Owagawa.
Ph.D. in Art History at GW.
It's gotta be the buyer.
We need a GPS location
on his cell.
12 blocks from
your location,
head due west.
( tires squealing )
I know you don't have
any backup, Tony.
How do you know that, Jeffrey?
I thought
you might be a cop.
That's why we took that
swim in the stream,
and that's why
I crashed the truck.
No bugs.
There's a reason Lane
isn't here, isn't there?
You're having
naughty thoughts, Tony.
Just so you know...
...when I said
no one ever treated me
like you did...
I meant that.
I know.
( tires screeching )
Step away
from your car!
Hands in the air!
I really liked him.
Yeah...
yeah, I can see that.
Captioning sponsored by CBS
and PARAMOUNT TELEVISION
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org